
        


[Pages S8833-S8834]
                          AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

  Mr. COATS. I know we will be voting shortly. The narrative out of the 
White House is that this health care plan is starting to work. That is 
not what I am hearing from home, and many are questioning this.
  The Wall Street Journal today published an analysis showing how the 
health care law will raise premium rates. We all are familiar with the 
President's promise that rates will not increase under the ObamaCare, 
Affordable Care Act. According to The Wall Street Journal, Americans--
particularly young, healthy adults--``could see insurance rates double 
or even triple when they look to buy individual coverage.'' Other 
groups, Oliver Wyman, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Milliman, all issued 
reports estimating that ObamaCare would increase premiums by up to 60 
percent.
  On and on this drama goes with broken promises. The American people 
are learning and discovering promises were made when this law was 
passed--and all through the 3\1/2\ years leading up to where we are--
and assurances were coming from the President and the White House: 
Don't worry. Your premiums won't go up, period. You can keep the doctor 
that you have, period. It is not going to cost any more money, period.
  Those promises have been broken and Hoosiers are finding out about 
this every day.
  Regardless of the statements coming out--don't worry, everything is 
going to be OK, sort of take it to the bank, trust us--that is not what 
is happening on the ground.
  People are writing to me. They are calling our office. They are 
tweeting, emailing, and doing everything they can to give us these 
horror stories, saying: Do I have to do this?
  Unfortunately, they do. Edward from Chesterton, IN, said he has spent 
countless hours on healthcare.gov searching for a health care plan. He 
discovered that the plans offered under the ObamaCare exchange had 
expensive premiums that he hadn't anticipated. In order to afford the 
monthly premiums, he has to choose the plan for

[[Page S8834]]

his family with unaffordable deductibles in order to keep his premiums 
at the level he can afford to pay. It is basically: Edward, don't get 
sick. Don't have a medical expense throughout your family every year, 
and you will be OK. But if you do, what you didn't pay in premiums you 
are going to have to pay in much higher deductibles.
  John from Martinsville, IN, was finally able to get on the 
healthcare.gov Web site. He found the bronze plan that was going to be 
at least $100 more per month. He doesn't qualify for a government 
subsidy, and he doesn't see any way this new law will be saving money 
for his family. John says the only thing he sees is that he now will be 
subsidizing the health care system even more than before the law was 
passed.
  DeWayne from Shipshewana, IN, wrote to tell me that not only is the 
small group health insurance plan his business currently offers not 
available any longer starting in 2014, but in his 15 years of 
administering the business health plans, he said he has never seen a 
rate increase this high.
  DeWayne's health insurance plan for him and his business employees 
will increase 65 percent in this coming year. DeWayne's small group 
health insurance is increasing 65 percent for 2014--and this is called 
the Affordable Care Act?
  I wish to give one more broken promise. William from Granger, IN, 
wrote and told me that his wife who works as a part-time nurse will no 
longer be offered health care since she works part-time. I assume they 
have children at home or maybe the hospital has determined they want to 
stay under that 40-hour workweek level, so they put her on part-time. I 
am not exactly sure what the case is.
  In any event, they have discovered they will have premiums rise from 
$11,544 a year under their current plan to $19,076 per year, an 
increase of over $7,500.
  He goes on to say: ``So much for [the President's promise] if you 
like your plan . . . if you like your doctor . . . your costs will go 
down by $2,500.''
  William's costs go up by $7,500.
  This isn't only Republicans in Washington highlighting these health 
care costs. These are Hoosiers from all backgrounds, Republicans, 
Democrats, and from all walks of life, sharing their stories with me 
about how they are paying the price for the President's broken 
promises.
  I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________




    