
        


[Pages S1532-S1533]
                          AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I got the chance to meet David Weis, a 22-
year-old student at Georgetown University, about a week ago. David's 
story, unfortunately, although it may sound exceptional, is not. He was 
just about to celebrate his 19th birthday, when 2 days before it, in 
2010, he was diagnosed with thyroid and lymphatic cancer--a devastating 
diagnosis that came just as he was preparing to start college.
  As most of his classmates were enjoying the first days of their 
freshman year at Georgetown University, David was dealing with a 
rigorous course of treatment for his disease that left him tired, left 
him confused, and left him anxious about his future. David had an ace 
up his sleeve, and that was the fact he had insurance. But he only has 
it as long as he is covered as a student.
  David came to the U.S. Capitol last week to testify in favor and in 
support of the Affordable Care Act, because he knows that with the 
passage of this bill his diagnosis will not be a death sentence; that 
he will be able to get the coverage he needs; and that he will be able 
to pursue his dreams when he graduates rather than have his life 
decisions dictated by his illness--having to choose a job simply 
because it provides health care or having to be locked into a career 
simply because he can't afford going without insurance to cover his 
cancer.
  David's story can be repeated hundreds of thousands of times all 
across

[[Page S1533]]

this country by young people in their teens and their twenties and in 
their thirties who thought they were invincible but who got knocked off 
their feet by a devastating disease such as cancer and who desperately 
need health care insurance at the time of that illness in order to get 
back onto their feet.
  Some of the best news that has come out over the past several months, 
as the enrollment has started to ramp up on the Affordable Care Act, 
has been the number of young people who have signed up. We have seen 
that 31 percent of all of the people who have signed up for insurance 
exchanges all across this country are 34 years or under. This is a real 
signal that young people are recognizing that, although they may feel 
as if they are going to live forever, they desperately need insurance, 
just as everyone else does. So that is why I was so glad to see 
President Obama yesterday go on the show ``Between Two Ferns,'' with 
Zach Galifianakis, to talk about the importance of young people signing 
up.
  We all know about the ``Two Ferns'' effect. Previously unknown stars 
such as Will Ferrell and Bradley Cooper went on ``Two Ferns'' and were 
catapulted to stardom. I am glad to see the ``Two Ferns'' effect has 
had the same impact on health care enrollment. Since President Obama 
went on ``Two Ferns,'' 19,000 people were referred to the Web site of 
enrollment from the ``Funny or Die'' Web site. By 6 p.m. that day the 
video had sent 32,000 people to healthcare.gov. HHS officials said 
traffic on healthcare.gov had risen by 40 percent on Tuesday to over 
890,000 visits in 1 day.
  It is a signal that when young people, through whatever means is 
available to them, find out about the benefits of the Affordable Care 
Act, they are interested and they are signing up. I hope President 
Obama uses more innovative tools and methods to try to get the word out 
to young adults in their late teens, twenties, and thirties about the 
importance of signing up for the Affordable Care Act because it is 
important. Some 70,000 adolescents and young adults are diagnosed with 
cancer every single year in this country. There are 151,000 people 
below the age of 20 living with diabetes right now. So despite the fact 
that we may think we are going to live forever or think we may not need 
coverage, young people need it as well. It is affordable.
  The President said yesterday on this show: You effectively can get 
coverage for the cost of a cell phone bill. And it is true. Having a 
cell phone is pretty important, but being able to get treatment when 
you get a serious disease is pretty important as well.
  In Connecticut the numbers are pretty reasonable. A 22-year-old in 
Hartford making a $25,000 salary--which is the salary I made in my 
first job in Hartford--can get a bronze policy for as low as $66 a 
month through Anthem. A 25-year-old living in Bridgeport making a 
little more, $30,000, can get a bronze policy for as low as $108 a 
month. About two-thirds of all young adults across the country who are 
currently uninsured are eligible for these subsidies.
  For all of these young people who were previously going to the 
marketplace and often having to pay full price, often buying insurance 
on their own with no ability to negotiate a group discount, this health 
care law is transformational. Fifty or sixty dollars a month is the 
price for bronze plans. And this doesn't even count the catastrophic 
option open to most young people as well.
  The good news continues to roll in when it comes to the numbers of 
people signing up. Yesterday the administration announced that 4.2 
million people have enrolled in marketplaces through March 1; 943,000 
people enrolled in the short month of February; and 31 percent of all 
those people are 34 or younger. And, of course, we haven't even gotten 
to crunch time yet.
  I wish this weren't the case, but I know something about how young 
people think. Too many leave big decisions until the last minute, 
whether it be studying for a test, writing a term paper, or signing up 
for health care.
  As we have seen in the past on a lot of these enrollment deadlines, 
like the enrollment deadline for Medicare Part D, the surge comes in 
the final few weeks of enrollment. So we expect to see the numbers pick 
up in a significant way through March.
  Knowing how people in their twenties and thirties think, I expect we 
will see a major surge in enrollment from young people as well. But 
they shouldn't wait until the last minute. It does take more than a few 
hours to look at the choices and decide which is best. In Connecticut 
we have three insurance plans offering coverage, but each one of them 
has three or four different plans. So I hope young adults in their 
twenties and thirties take more than a few hours or a day to sign up 
because we want to make sure they get the plan available for them. It 
is easy to do with a phone call to an enrollment center, a visit in 
Connecticut to the in-person centers in New Britain and New Haven, and 
very simple to do on healthcare.gov.
  In Connecticut our exchange is going like gangbusters. We had a goal 
of signing up 80,000 to 100,000 people, and a full 30 days before the 
deadline we have signed up 152,000 people. Of those individuals in 
Connecticut, about 25 percent are 25 years or younger. We are on track 
to double our original estimates in Connecticut.
  Connecticut is a State that had a pretty high rate of insured to 
begin with, so our delta to get to full insurance was relatively small 
compared to other States. But guess what Connecticut is doing. 
Connecticut is actually working to implement the law rather than 
working to undermine the law. We put a lot of time and thought into 
getting a working Web site, into doing the kind of outreach other 
States are not doing to get people to sign up. When we have done that, 
young people and old people across the board have flocked to sign up.
  I was glad to see the President do his outreach yesterday to young 
people all across the country. I was glad to see the spike in interest 
on healthcare.gov. I am glad to see that 4.2 million people have signed 
up for health care, as more people all across the country--young people 
especially--are realizing the Affordable Care Act works.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________




    