
        


[Pages S6551-S6552]
                          AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

  Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the Affordable Care 
Act. At home in Hawaii we have a saying, ``Lucky you live Hawaii.'' 
That can

[[Page S6552]]

mean a lot of different things to different people, but when talking 
about access to affordable, effective care, this phrase has particular 
meaning.
  In the early 1970s, the rate of uninsured in our State was about 30 
percent, meaning roughly 1 in 3 in our population would live in fear 
that sickness or injury could cause financial ruin for themselves or 
their families. The people of Hawaii knew this was unacceptable.
  In 1974, the State government passed an innovative piece of 
legislation, the Prepaid Health Care Act. Now simply known as Prepaid, 
this legislation requires employers to provide affordable and quality 
care for hundreds of thousands of individuals and their families.
  Our uninsured rate is one of the lowest in the country, with only 8 
percent of our population lacking any type of insurance. Even though 
Hawaii has been at the forefront in making health care a right and not 
a privilege, we still have a way to go. Even with Prepaid, there are 
more than 100,000 people in our State still uninsured.
  When the Affordable Care Act passed 3 years ago, I knew it meant that 
those who are uninsured or underinsured in Hawaii would find some 
relief. We have already seen major successes since this landmark 
legislation passed.
  Yet people are still afraid of ObamaCare. This is because a lot of 
people have spent a lot of time and money to make the American public 
believe that somehow this legislation is bad for them and will harm 
them. That is why, when asked about health care reform as a whole, many 
Americans say they are concerned, they have anxiety. But when you talk 
to people back in Hawaii and across the Nation, and even those who 
think they don't like health care reform, they like what it does.
  For example, parents like that they can keep their children on their 
health insurance until the age of 26, which affects 6,000 young adults 
in the State of Hawaii. People will no longer have to live in fear of 
lifetime limits on health benefits, which will help more than 460,000 
residents of Hawaii, including 115,000 children. More than half a 
million people in my State will no longer have to worry about being 
denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition.
  As a State that has committed to Medicaid expansion, Hawaii will also 
now be able to provide care to close to more than 68,000 residents 
starting in 2014.
  People like these policies. People like what health care reform is 
already doing for them.
  While my colleagues across the aisle are looking to repeal this 
historic legislation, I am looking forward to how we can build on its 
success.
  Let me be clear. The fact that health care reform is working is 
exactly why the detractors of the ACA are trying so hard to stop it 
from being fully implemented. They know the American people are 
embracing ObamaCare because of all the good it will do for our 
families.
  In particular, I am looking forward to the opening of our 
marketplace, the Hawaii Health Connector, on October 1. Many of the 
people I have spoken to want to know what the marketplace may mean for 
them. Simply, the Hawaii Health Connector is going to provide a 
consumer-friendly way for residents of my State to view and compare a 
wide variety of plans. Then they will be able to pick the coverage that 
best suits them and their families. My office has been in constant 
contact with the Connector, and their staff in Hawaii has been working 
tirelessly to set up the online and phone interface, and to provide 
assistance and navigation in the form of kokua, a word in Hawaiian that 
essentially means pitching in to help your neighbors and your community 
with no regard for personal gain.
  This is reflective of the values we have in Hawaii, that everyone 
deserves to be healthy and have access to affordable and quality care. 
That doesn't mean we still don't have a lot of work to do.
  I am hoping a number of bills I have introduced, including the Rural 
Preventive Health Care Training Act and the Strengthening Health 
Disparities Data Collection Act, will be considered and voted on by the 
full Senate in order to solve some of our worst issues in providing 
care to rural and underserved populations in Hawaii and across the 
Nation.
  I believe ACA is working the way it should be. It is increasing the 
number of insured Americans, promoting preventive care that will help 
to reduce the human and financial costs of avoidable illness and 
lowering the costs of care for everyone.
  Many of my colleagues in Congress choose not to see any of this. The 
only option for them is total repeal, with zero tolerance for open 
discussion or compromise on this landmark legislation, but that kind of 
thinking is what causes the gridlock Americans are so tired of. I 
understand there will be parts of this law, which is a sweeping piece 
of legislation, that will need to be amended over time to resolve any 
kinks. These kinds of revisions have been done with every other 
landmark domestic social policy that has been passed in this country, 
including Medicare and Social Security.
  I am willing, as are my colleagues on the Democratic side, to come to 
the table and work with Republicans to make necessary improvements over 
time, but I refuse to engage in the process of political and 
parliamentary gymnastics designed to score small, short-term wins at 
the expense of the American people and the economy.
  It must be pointed out that anyone who wants to grind the entire 
government to a halt over the implementation of this several-years-old 
law will cause harm to the economy and harm to their communities, 
because Federal funding provides essential services and programs to 
constituents in every State and every county in every district. If 
improvements or changes need to be made, they can be done through the 
regular order with hearings, serious discussions, and bipartisan 
support. Ultimately, what we are seeing in Hawaii and across the Nation 
is President Obama's historic health care package is making inroads in 
improving our health care system. Efforts to stop that cannot be 
tolerated by Members of Congress and the people of this Nation.
  I will continue to support its full implementation and look forward 
to working with all of my colleagues in the Senate to build upon its 
success.
  I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. Heitkamp). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Mr. MARKEY. I ask unanimous consent to speak as in morning business 
for up to 15 minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________




    