
        


[Page H3735]
      HONORING HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS WHO PROVIDE HOSPICE CARE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Oregon (Mr. Blumenauer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, today on Capitol Hill there are hundreds 
of nurses, chaplains and social workers, the people who deliver hospice 
care at the bedside, here to promote an honest discussion and careful 
analysis of how to help individuals and their families grapple with the 
final chapter of life. It may be the hardest issue in health care, and 
the fear that it invokes can be a powerful weapon.
  For most of us, the majority of health care we receive in our 
lifetime will be administered in those last few months. It's when we 
need the most doctors and nursing care, medical procedures and 
oftentimes in hospitals.
  But we know from scientific studies that when patients are educated 
about their treatment options, they make decisions that are not only 
aligned with their personal preferences, but shared decision-making 
relieves stress and anxiety. Ironically, sometimes getting less 
intensive help, like in a hospice, not only improves the quality of 
life, these patients, many of them actually live longer.
  From a public policy perspective, it's perverse that Medicare will 
pay for almost any medical procedure, yet not reimburse doctors to have 
a thoughtful conversation to prepare patients and their families for 
the delicate, complex, and emotionally demanding decisions surrounding 
the end of life.
  That's why I sought to direct Medicare, in the Affordable Care Act, 
to cover a voluntary discussion with the doctor about living wills, 
power of attorney, and end-of-life preferences. Helping patients and 
their families clarify what they want and need should be an element of 
any rational, comprehensive health care system.
  Despite our recent history, it's also a rare common denominator in 
health care politics because it's something that most people actually 
agree on. In fact, the majority of my Republican colleagues supported a 
similar provision for terminally ill elderly patients that was part of 
the 2003 prescription drug bill.
  I had a friend of mine, a Republican cardiovascular surgeon here in 
the House, who told me he had many end-of-life conversations; but, 
unfortunately, they were often too late. He wished he could have spoken 
to patients and their families when they could have properly reflected, 
not just when the surgery was merely hours away.
  During the early debates on the Affordable Care Act, I was confident 
that this was an area where we were making a contribution to improve 
the quality of health care, but it actually might be something that 
would bring us together because of the shared agreement. But, 
unfortunately, battle lines were drawn; and you know how the rest of 
that story went: death panels, rationing, forced consultation with 
government-appointed physicians.
  In war, truth is the first casualty. The same goes for politics. As a 
country, we have a difficult time talking rationally and thoughtfully 
about end-of-life issues. That's why it's so important that we have 
these dedicated people on Capitol Hill today--the nurses, the hospice 
workers, the social workers--to have this thoughtful conversation from 
people who do it every day. Their work to help patients and families 
can help Congress understand that the work is not finished.
  I urge my colleagues to take a look at the Personalize Your Health 
Care Act, H.R. 1589. Join me in making sure that the Federal Government 
is a better partner in helping families prepare for this difficult 
chapter.

                          ____________________




    