
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E2830-E2831]
                 AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR AMERICA ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                         HON. JAMES R. LANGEVIN

                            of rhode island

                    in the house of representatives

                       Saturday, November 7, 2009

  Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3962, the 
Affordable Health Care for America Act. Congress has made unprecedented 
strides this year in the fight to reform our nation's health insurance 
system and provide coverage to all Americans, and today's vote 
represents a historic culmination of these vast, collaborative efforts. 
This transformative bill offers real solutions for Rhode Islanders by 
providing better access to affordable, quality health care coverage and 
finally puts America back on the path to an efficient and sustainable 
health care system.
  This summer, I traveled across the district to meet with Rhode 
Islanders and discuss health reform. I met with constituents who had 
health insurance all their lives, but then lost it when they were 
diagnosed with cancer. I met with small business owners who provided 
coverage for their employees for decades, but were forced to 
discontinue it when they could no longer keep up with skyrocketing 
costs. And I met with parents who were desperate to protect their 
childrens' health, but feared they would soon run up against lifetime 
insurance caps.
  All of these stories conveyed the same message--health care costs in 
the United States are rising at an unsustainable rate, and they are 
placing a huge burden on Rhode Island families, employers and health 
care providers. This year alone, over 13,000 Rhode Islanders lost their 
insurance coverage due to rising unemployment. And those who still have 
coverage are struggling with rising premiums, co-pays and crushing 
medical debt. Meanwhile, yearly double-digit premium increases are 
forcing businesses to choose between keeping their employees' health 
coverage and keeping their employees.
  As a longtime advocate of universal health care, I made a promise to 
my constituents to change the status quo of health care in America. The 
time for inaction is over--we must join together to pass this bill.
  H.R. 3962 will institute the changes we need to provide more security 
and stability to Americans who have health insurance, guarantee 
insurance to the millions who don't, and lower health care costs for 
our families, businesses and the government.
  This legislation builds on the strengths of our current employer-
based system by encouraging businesses who offer their own coverage to 
continue doing so. Americans who don't have coverage through their 
employer will be able to shop for their choice of a health plan through 
a new ``health insurance exchange,'' modeled after the tried and 
true Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, which successfully 
provides coverage for over 9 million federal employees, retirees and 
their dependents.

  Unlike the limited options that are available to most consumers 
today, the exchange will

[[Page E2831]]

provide a more convenient, transparent and affordable way to choose 
among a variety of health plans that meets individual needs. Americans 
who cannot afford to purchase coverage within the exchange will receive 
financial assistance to ensure that they can obtain comprehensive 
coverage. Additionally, small businesses will receive tax credits that 
will make it more affordable to offer insurance to their employees.
  I am also pleased that this bill encourages competition by ensuring 
that Americans will have the ability to choose a public plan 
alternative. Unlike private insurance carriers, the public option will 
not be obligated by big profits for shareholders or large salaries for 
CEOs. And while it represents just one option for the consumer and one 
component of health care reform, it will serve as an important tool to 
increase choice and competition and lower overall insurance costs.
  Included in this proposal are a number of important health consumer 
protections. It will finally end insurance discrimination against 
people with pre-existing conditions and prevent insurance companies 
from imposing lifetime limits or dropping coverage when people are sick 
and need it most. It will cap out-of-pocket expenses so people don't go 
broke when they get sick; eliminate extra charges for preventive care 
like mammograms and diabetes tests; and protect Medicare for seniors 
while working to eliminate the ``donut-hole'' gap in coverage for 
prescription drugs. It will also require that insurers reinvest at 
least 85 percent of their premiums back into health coverage. This will 
limit the amount of money spent on advertising, underwriting, overhead 
and profits that do nothing but reduce health benefits for patients.
  Improving access to coverage will also require investments in our 
health care workforce. Our system is strained by a lack of nurses and 
primary care physicians, particularly in underserved areas. That is why 
our bill contains important workforce development initiatives like new 
scholarships and loan repayment programs, grant programs for primary 
care training and immediate financial support for community health 
centers. This will strengthen the number of nurses, doctors and other 
health care professionals necessary to meet the increased demand for 
services.
  This bill also makes historic changes to our antitrust laws by 
removing exemption enjoyed by insurance companies so that they are no 
longer shielded from liability for price fixing or dominating their 
market--all of which reduce competition and increase prices for 
consumers. It establishes new grant programs designed to encourage 
states to implement alternatives to traditional medical malpractice 
litigation with the goal of reducing frivolous lawsuits while allowing 
legitimate cases to be heard. This bill also has my strong support 
because every portion will be completely paid for, and it will reduce 
the deficit by $109 billion over the next ten years.
  Mr. Speaker, I believe it is incumbent on us as policymakers to offer 
a new vision for health care in America--one that contains costs, 
improves quality, increases efficiency, promotes wellness, puts health 
care decisions back in the hands of patients and doctors, and 
guarantees coverage as a right to our citizens.
  Every American deserves the promise of quality, affordable health 
care. I urge my colleagues to join me in fulfilling that promise today, 
and support the Affordable Health Care for America Act.

                          ____________________




    