
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E2759-E2760]
                 AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR AMERICA ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                           HON. KURT SCHRADER

                               of oregon

                    in the house of representatives

                       Saturday, November 7, 2009

  Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have cast an historic vote 
to overhaul America's failing health care system today. Controlling 
escalating health care costs is essential to getting our nation's 
fiscal picture under control. For the first time in our country's 
history it has brought consumers, businesses and providers to the table 
in a united effort to control costs, make health care affordable and 
improve our health outcomes. I have always said that if you like your 
current health care you need to be in favor of reform because you will 
not be able to afford that same level of care if the status quo 
persists.
  H.R. 3962 prohibits exclusions based on preexisting conditions. It 
forbids the cancellation of your health care because you have suffered 
an illness or injury. It makes sure that everyone shares appropriately 
in the benefits and costs of affordable health care reform. Americans 
will no longer be one illness or job loss away from bankruptcy. It 
guarantees basic benefits for all Americans and allows competition 
across state lines to reduce costs.
  H.R. 3962 makes major reforms in our health care delivery system that 
we have not had the political courage to do for years. Major 
improvements in Medicare and Medicaid save over $400 billion while 
still expanding services to our seniors. I am pleased the House bill 
contains a section on Comparative Effectiveness Research (CER). 
However, I believe the CER provisions contained within the bill could 
use significant improvement to ensure the research that is conducted is 
protected from undue political influence from the government. Earlier 
this year I introduced H.R. 2502, the Comparative Effectiveness 
Research Act of 2009. My bill reinforces a core principal of health 
care that patients and doctors should be making medical decisions. It 
would establish an independent institute charged with coordinating and 
guiding comparative effectiveness research programs. By streamlining 
access to the latest medical research, doctors can make sound decisions 
that will improve the health of their patients and ultimately lower 
costs by reducing the number of redundant and ineffective treatments. 
This is the approach that has guided CER efforts in the Senate and it 
is my intention to work closely with the House leadership and the 
conference committee to ensure any final compromise establishes a 
public-private institute outside of government to guide the research 
and ensure it will be independent, credible, and protected from 
political influence.
  It begins to emphasize, and pay for early, intervention and 
prevention to keep people healthy and reduce costs. H.R. 3962 puts $34 
billion is put into wellness and prevention programs and developing the 
primary care network needed to provide timely service to all Americans. 
Rural America also gets particular attention in the bill with loan 
forgiveness and incentive programs.
  America's senior citizens do particularly well under this 
legislation. In addition to modernizing and reducing costs, Medicare 
improvements allow seniors to keep more assets and still access 
subsidies. The new bill fixes the donut hole sooner and allows more 
drug price-

[[Page E2760]]

negotiation to ensure seniors are getting the best prices for their 
medication. In a separate bill Congress fixes doctor reimbursement so 
that a 21 percent rate reduction is avoided and doctors become more 
willing to take senior Medicare patients again.
  Private employer-based health insurance would still constitute 60 
percent of the way Americans get their health care. This bill provides 
a public option with negotiated rates and without tax-payer subsidies 
that will drive down costs without creating an uneven playing-field 
with private insurance companies.
  H.R. 3962 does better by small businesses too. Small businesses with 
payrolls below $500,000 are excluded from having to provide health care 
or pay penalties. The old bill set that limit at $250,000. And only 
individuals earning over $500,000 and families over $1 million would be 
subject to the surcharge for incomes over those amounts.
  Oregon does particularly well in the new bill. Not only are many of 
our pioneering health care delivery systems included in the bill with 
grants for expanding, but two studies create a Congress proof 
opportunity for the restructuring of Medicare reimbursement that will 
reward high-quality low-cost states like Oregon.
  Perhaps most significantly H.R. 3962 substantially reduces the cost 
of the initial reform bill. Almost $200 billion is trimmed from the 
costs, with more to come in negotiations with the Senate and President 
Obama. According to CBO, the bill reduces the deficit both in the 
short- and long-term. According to leading economists, the bill lowers 
premiums going forward compared to current law for all income groups, 
even those without subsidies.
  I believe we can do better! I have personal commitments from the 
President that more cost containment is necessary and will occur as we 
work with the Senate. The Senate subsidies are much more sustainable 
over the long-term and strike a better balance between making health 
care affordable and curbing the overutilization through meaningful cost 
sharing.
  I am excited about reforming our health care system to deliver better 
health outcomes and more affordable costs for families, businesses and 
our Nation.

                          ____________________




    