
        


[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E2766]
                 AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR AMERICA ACT

                                 ______
                                 

                               speech of

                           HON. STEVE ISRAEL

                              of new york

                    in the house of representatives

                       Saturday, November 7, 2009

  Mr. ISRAEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Affordable Health 
Care for America Act. I join the American Cancer Society, the American 
Medical Association, the American Nurses Association, Consumers Union, 
AARP, and many other organizations in the strong belief that this bill 
will bring financial relief to middle class families and businesses who 
have faced skyrocketing costs for health care.
  In the past months, I have listened carefully to the families and 
businesses I represent on Long Island. I held many public forums on 
health care; visited businesses facing double digit premium increases; 
met with physicians and toured hospitals; invited protesters into my 
office to hear their concerns; convened a tele-town hall that attracted 
5,000 senior citizens; hosted another tele-town hall meeting with 
nearly 11,000 people; organized a live town hall meeting at Suffolk 
Community College with 500 people; made hundreds of personal phone 
calls to constituents; and much more.
  People with strong opinions on opposite sides of this issue have 
insisted that I listen to them, believing that they represent a 
majority of our community. And at the end of the day, I believe 
strongly that we can no longer do business as usual. In the past 10 
years, Long Islanders have seen their health insurance premiums 
increase 80 percent. And if we do nothing, the average Long Islanders' 
health costs will increase $1,800 every year.
  Employer-sponsored health insurance premiums have increased 80 
percent in 10 years for Long Island businesses. As a result, more 
companies are forced to cut payroll, trim raises, or increase employee 
contributions. Some have told me if this continues, they will have to 
begin considering offering no health insurance.
  And almost every week, my office in Hauppauge receives complaints 
from neighbors who were denied insurance coverage due to preexisting 
conditions. They complain about ``sticker shock'' when they open their 
insurance company statement and learn that they'll have to pay for a 
greater share of services they assumed were covered.
  In a region with unacceptably high property taxes and energy costs, 
we simply cannot afford to allow health care to continue skyrocketing.
  The original bill did contain provisions that concerned me. As a 
result of my town meetings and other visits, I was able to help improve 
the bill.
  For example:
  Many Long Islanders complained that the original family income 
trigger for the surtax that will fund nearly half of this bill was too 
low. I successfully fought to raise the trigger to $1 million per 
family. As a result, no Long Island family with earnings less than $1 
million will see a surtax to pay for this bill.
  I worked to increase the trigger for small business health care from 
$250,000 to $500,000 in payroll.
  Many seniors in Medicare Part D prescription drug plans asked for 
faster relief from the so called ``donut hole.'' In 2010, they will 
receive an immediate $500 expanded benefit. That will assist 8,000 
seniors in our district alone.
  To lower drug costs, I fought to include a provision allowing the 
Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate volume discounts 
with big drug companies, just like the VA does.
  I sought to increase funding for the Family Caregiver Support program 
to help Americans who take care of their parents or grandparents.
  Some argued that insurance should be sold across State lines. This 
bill would allow companies to sell plans across State lines where 
States joined together to form interstate compacts to allow it.
  Before accessing the newly created Health Insurance Exchange, one's 
citizenship and immigration status will be verified by the Department 
of Homeland Security.
  Mr. Speaker, I have heard some insist that this bill represents a 
government takeover of health care. It is simply not true. All the bill 
does is give Long Islanders the choice to enter into a competitive 
Health Insurance Exchange to shop for a health insurance plan--just 
like every Member of Congress. There, private companies will compete 
for one's business. Among those private businesses will be a ``public 
option'' which must be self-sufficient and funded from premiums paid by 
its enrollees. That option will not need to worry about dividends or 
profits, CEO salaries or expensive marketing campaigns. It will compete 
against the private plans: just like public colleges compete against 
private colleges, just like ExpressMail competes against FedEx, just 
like Perrier competes against the Suffolk County Water Authority. I 
haven't heard anyone call the water they drink from their faucets 
``socialist water''. And I've not heard any reasonable person call 
Medicare socialized health care. The reason the public option is so 
vital is that its lower costs will incentivize insurance companies who 
have doubled their premiums to be more price sensitive in order to 
attract customers.
  Finally, Mr. Speaker, a special word for those who have demanded that 
I ``listen to them.'' We tend to see the world through our own eyes, 
leaving very little room for what may be outside our vision. People on 
polar opposites of this issue have understandably demanded that I 
``listen to them.'' Both claim to represent a majority of Long 
Islanders. I don't pay much attention to polls, Mr. Speaker, but a 
recent poll in Newsday indicated that 70 percent of Long Islanders 
support the public option. I will say that after that poll, some of the 
same people who demanded I listen to the majority told me the majority 
doesn't know what it's talking about so I should ignore it.
  I made a final judgment by listening carefully to everyone. I fought 
and delivered improvements in this bill. Is it perfect? No. Government 
can never be perfect, and I'll continue to demand that it be more 
competent. But this bill, for the first time, will give Americans more 
choice and control over a virtual health insurance monopoly and will 
finally end the days when someone who has faithfully paid their 
premiums from hearing that their diabetes, their cancer, their 
children's autism, are no longer covered.

                          ____________________




    