
        


[Pages S8343-S8344]
                              HEALTH CARE

  Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. Mr. President, I rise today to continue 
to urge my colleagues for quick passage of my legislation that would 
restore access to life-saving medicines for children's hospitals.
  As my colleagues are aware, I introduced independent legislation in 
September that would protect the lives of the most vulnerable among 
us--our Nation's children--by immediately restoring access and ensuring 
children's hospitals across the country are able to purchase orphan 
drugs at a discount.
  Children's hospitals lost access to these medicines when Congress 
passed

[[Page S8344]]

the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
  That wasn't right.
  And so my legislation sought to fix it and restore access to these 
life-saving medicines for children's hospitals. Without this fix, 
children's hospitals across the country will be faced with higher drug 
costs. I introduced this legislation with the support of several of my 
Republican colleagues. And I know that my Democratic colleagues support 
the intent of my legislation too.
  Unfortunately, and despite passage in the House, the Senate has not 
passed legislation to correct this flaw in the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act.
  But I am hopeful that the Senate will take action soon. I continue to 
work with my colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee and with Senate 
leadership to ensure that the Senate acts swiftly to correct this error 
in the Federal health care reform bill.
  As my colleagues are aware, access to orphan drugs are critically 
important to children, many of whom, if they are ill, suffer from rare 
diseases or conditions. Orphan drugs, by definition, are designed and 
developed to help and treat diseases or conditions that affect fewer 
than 200,000 people, many of whom are children. On a daily basis, the 
Children's Hospital of Boston uses most of the 347 medicines that are 
designated orphan drugs.
  I will say again that my legislation has the support of my colleagues 
from both sides of the aisle. And I have this support because fixing 
this provision and restoring access to life-saving medicines is the 
right thing to do.
  My legislation restores and protects the ability for children's 
hospitals to access those outpatient medicines through the 340B drug 
discount program authorized in the Public Health Services Act. Access 
to this program and the corresponding discount saves the Children's 
Hospital of Boston nearly $3 million annually, but more importantly, 
Children's Hospital of Boston is able to save lives as a result. 
Hospitals and doctors at children's hospitals are able to access life-
saving medicines, children live better lives, and families are given 
peace of mind.
  Passing my bill quickly is the right thing to do and I encourage my 
colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly to enact my legislation to 
ensure that children's hospitals can once again receive discounted 
pricing on these life-saving medicines.
  There is no cause for delay. The House has passed this restorative 
language twice already. The Senate needs to do the same. And we should 
do so before the end of this year.
  I believe quick passage is possible--quick passage should be 
possible--because of the support and efforts that I have seen 
demonstrated by my fellow Senators.

                          ____________________




    