
        


[Page H6835]
                          GOVERNMENT GLITCHES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, the American people have 
become all too accustomed to government glitches, which result largely 
from government that has grown too large, too bureaucratic, and too 
difficult to navigate.
  Every day, with a dedicated and compassionate staff, I assist 
constituents in navigating the frustrating and challenging bureaucracy 
of the Federal Government. On a daily basis, we attempt to problem-
solve issues that citizens face when seeking resolution on issues with 
Federal agencies, agencies such as the Internal Revenue Service, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, Veterans Affairs, or FEMA, just to 
name a few.
  The frustrations and difficulties created as unintended consequences 
of the Affordable Care Act have dramatically expanded how large and 
damaging government glitches can be. The Web site glitches are just 
icing on the cake; for over the last several years, the broken promises 
have continued to mount. One of the more glaring broken promises was 
reported yesterday when Americans found out they won't be able to keep 
the plan they have, despite what the President has been telling us.
  Yesterday, NBC News aired a report that sources involved in the 
Affordable Care Act have admitted that:

       Fifty to 75 percent of the 14 million consumers who buy 
     their insurance individually can expect to receive a 
     ``cancelation'' letter or the equivalent over the next year 
     because their existing policies don't meet the standards 
     mandated by the new health care law.

  One expert was reported as predicting that number could reach as high 
as 80 percent. All of the four NBC sources said that many of those 
forced to buy pricier new policies will experience ``sticker shock.''
  While millions of Americans are being shocked by cancelation letters 
for their health insurance, the Obama administration has known of this 
government glitch for at least 3 years.
  Mr. Speaker, the so-called Affordable Care Act has been anything but 
affordable. Prices continue to rise on insurance premiums, and the cost 
of care nationally continues to go up.
  Mr. Speaker, this law was intended to expand access and quality. Yet 
in Pennsylvania, children are being forced out of the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, commonly known as PA CHIP, and into medical 
assistance. CHIP is serving our kids adequately through commercial 
products that are widely accepted by physicians. It is low-cost, 
market-based health insurance coverage. Moving these kids onto Medicaid 
has the potential to dramatically limit access to care.
  Given the mounting evidence of glitches in ObamaCare's rollout, 
affordability, and individual choice, you have to wonder about what the 
future holds. From the missed deadlines, delays, and special waivers 
to, now, Web site crashes and Americans losing the plans they have, the 
outcomes we are encountering with this law are completely unacceptable.
  Mr. Speaker, it is time for the administration to delay and fix all 
these glitches that are so evident in the Affordable Care Act. It is 
time for the Obama administration to do the right thing. The American 
people deserve as much.

                          ____________________




    